README.rst, before:

Eve-Swagger |latest-version|
============================

|build-status| |python-support|

Swagger_ extension for Eve_ powered RESTful APIs.

Usage
-----
.. code-block:: python

    from eve import Eve
    from eve_swagger import swagger, add_documentation

    app = Eve()
    app.register_blueprint(swagger)

    # required. See http://swagger.io/specification/#infoObject for details.
    app.config['SWAGGER_INFO'] = {
        'title': 'My Supercool API',
        'version': '1.0',
        'description': 'an API description',
        'termsOfService': 'my terms of service',
        'contact': {
            'name': 'nicola',
            'url': 'http://nicolaiarocci.com'
        },
        'license': {
            'name': 'BSD',
            'url': 'https://github.com/pyeve/eve-swagger/blob/master/LICENSE',
        },
        'schemes': ['http', 'https'],
    }

    # optional. Will use flask.request.host if missing.
    app.config['SWAGGER_HOST'] = 'myhost.com'

    # optional. Add/Update elements in the documentation at run-time without deleting subtrees.
    add_documentation({'paths': {'/status': {'get': {'parameters': [
        {
            'in': 'query',
            'name': 'foobar',
            'required': False,
            'description': 'special query parameter',
            'type': 'string'
        }]
    }}}})

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        app.run()

When the API is up and running, visit the ``/api-docs`` endpoint. The resulting
JSON can then be used with swagger tooling, like the Swagger UI or Swagger Editor:

.. image:: resources/swagger_editor.png

If you get the error "*Can't read from server. It may not have the appropriate
access-control-origin settings*" from Swagger UI, you might want to enable CORS
support with the ``X_DOMAINS`` and ``X_HEADERS`` configuration in your Eve
``settings.py``:

.. code-block:: python

    X_DOMAINS = ['http://localhost:8000',  # The domain where Swagger UI is running
                 'http://editor.swagger.io',
                 'http://petstore.swagger.io']
    X_HEADERS = ['Content-Type', 'If-Match']  # Needed for the "Try it out" buttons

For more information check the CORS documentation of `Swagger UI`_ and `Swagger
Editor`_.

Installation
------------
.. code-block::

    $ pip install eve-swagger


Description fields on the swagger docs
--------------------------------------

If you would like to include description fields to your swagger docs you can
include a description field in your schema validations in your ``settings.py``.
This can be done per field as well as on the resource-level.

As an example:

.. code-block:: python

    ...
    'description': 'Description of the user resource',
    'schema': {
        'userName': {
            'description': 'The username of the logged in user.',
            'type': 'string',
            'minlength': 1,
            'maxlength': 256,
            'required': True
        },
    }
    ...

**NOTE**: If you do use that feature make sure that the ``TRANSPARENT_SCHEMA_RULES``
in your ``settings.py`` is also turned ON, otherwise you will get complains from the
Cerberus library about "unknown field 'description' for field [yourFieldName]", or use 
a custom schema validator, as below:

.. code-block:: python

    from eve.io.mongo import Validator

    class MyValidator(Validator):
        def _validate_description(self, description, field, value):
            """ {'type': 'string'} """
            # Accept description attribute, used for swagger doc generation
            pass

    app = Eve(validator=MyValidator)


Disabling the documentation of a resource
-----------------------------------------

You can disable the documentation of a specific resource by adding a ``disable_documentation`` field
to the resource definition in ``settings.py``. This means that the resource will not show up in
the ``paths`` or ``definitions`` sections of the swagger docs.

.. code-block:: python

    ...
    'person': {
        'item_title': 'person',
        'disable_documentation': True,
        'schema': {...}
    }
    ...

Enabling the documentation of Eve event hooks
---------------------------------------------

By setting ``app.config['ENABLE_HOOK_DESCRIPTION']`` to ``True`` you can enable the description of all Eve event hooks.
This is done by showing the docstrings of the callback functions in the swagger docs under the appropriate ``paths``.

.. code-block:: python

    def foo(request, lookup):
        """ Do something before GETting all the people """
        pass
    def bar(response):
        """ Do something when you've fetched the database entries """
        pass
    ...
    app.config['ENABLE_HOOK_DESCRIPTION'] = True
    ...
    app.on_pre_GET_people += foo
    app.on_fetched_resource_people += bar

The swagger docs will now look like this:

.. code-block:: python

    "paths": {
        "/people": {
            "get": {
                ...,
                "description": "**Hooks**:\n* `on_pre_GET_people`:\n\n  * `foo`:\n\n    Do something before GETting all the people\n\n\n* `on_fetched_resource_people`:\n\n  * `bar`:\n\n    Do something when you've fetched the database entries\n\n"
            }
        }
    }

Which will be rendered by Swagger like this:

.. image:: resources/hook_description.png

Example fields on the docs
--------------------------

Like a description, an example can be added to a field.

.. code-block:: python

    ...
    'schema': {
        'lastName': {
            'example': 'Doe',
            'type': 'string',
            'minlength': 1,
        },
    }
    ...

The example is shown in the swagger ui in the model and the responses.

.. image:: resources/example_field.png

**NOTE**: As with the description, the field ``TRANSPARENT_SCHEMA_RULES``
must be enabled in your ``settings.py``, otherwise the Cerberus library 
will display an error about "unknown field 'example' for field[yourFieldName]".

If you do not want to use this rule for the entire schema, you can also use 
your own validator.

.. code-block:: python

    from eve.io.mongo import Validator

    class MyValidator(Validator):
        def _validate_example(self, example, field, value):
            if example and not isinstance(value, str):
                self._error(field, "Value must be a string")

    ...

    app = Eve(validator=MyValidator)

Example resources on the docs
-----------------------------

Like a description, an example can be added to a resource.

.. code-block:: python

    ...
    'sub_resource': {
        'description': 'A sub resource to test regex urls.',
        'url': 'people/<regex("[a-f0-9]{24}"):personid>/related',
        'example': {'subject': 'A sub_resource object example'},

        'schema': {
            'personid': {
                'type': 'objectid',
                'data_relation': {
                    'resource': 'people',
                    'field': '_id', },
            },
            'subject': {'type': 'string'},
        }
    },
    ...

The resource example overrides the example generated from the schema definition, and can be used to hide fields that are defined on the server side.
The example is shown in the swagger ui in the parameters only.


Copyright
---------
Eve-Swagger is an open source project by `Nicola Iarocci`_.
See the original LICENSE_ for more information.

.. |latest-version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/eve-swagger.svg
   :alt: Latest version on PyPI
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/eve-swagger
.. |build-status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/pyeve/eve-swagger.svg?branch=master
   :alt: Build status
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/pyeve/eve-swagger
.. |python-support| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/eve-swagger.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/eve-swagger
   :alt: Python versions
.. |license| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/eve-swagger.svg
   :alt: Software license
   :target: https://github.com/pyeve/eve-swagger/blob/master/LICENSE

.. _Swagger: http://swagger.io/
.. _Eve: http://python-eve.org/
.. _`popular request`: https://github.com/pyeve/eve/issues/574
.. _LICENSE: https://github.com/pyeve/eve-swagger/blob/master/LICENSE
.. _`Nicola Iarocci`: http://nicolaiarocci.com
.. _`Swagger UI`: https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-ui#enabling-cors
.. _`Swagger Editor`: https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-editor/blob/master/docs/cors.md

Commit message:

Adopt black code formatting; add Python 3.6 and 3.7 to CI
Also modernize the whole setup/CI/packaging workflow

Closes #81
Closes #82

README.rst, after:

Eve-Swagger |latest-version|
============================

|latest-version| |build-status| |python-support| |license| |black-formatting|

Swagger_ extension for Eve_ powered RESTful APIs.

Usage
-----
.. code-block:: python

    from eve import Eve
    from eve_swagger import swagger, add_documentation

    app = Eve()
    app.register_blueprint(swagger)

    # required. See http://swagger.io/specification/#infoObject for details.
    app.config['SWAGGER_INFO'] = {
        'title': 'My Supercool API',
        'version': '1.0',
        'description': 'an API description',
        'termsOfService': 'my terms of service',
        'contact': {
            'name': 'nicola',
            'url': 'http://nicolaiarocci.com'
        },
        'license': {
            'name': 'BSD',
            'url': 'https://github.com/pyeve/eve-swagger/blob/master/LICENSE',
        },
        'schemes': ['http', 'https'],
    }

    # optional. Will use flask.request.host if missing.
    app.config['SWAGGER_HOST'] = 'myhost.com'

    # optional. Add/Update elements in the documentation at run-time without deleting subtrees.
    add_documentation({'paths': {'/status': {'get': {'parameters': [
        {
            'in': 'query',
            'name': 'foobar',
            'required': False,
            'description': 'special query parameter',
            'type': 'string'
        }]
    }}}})

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        app.run()

When the API is up and running, visit the ``/api-docs`` endpoint. The resulting
JSON can then be used with swagger tooling, like the Swagger UI or Swagger Editor:

.. image:: resources/swagger_editor.png

If you get the error "*Can't read from server. It may not have the appropriate
access-control-origin settings*" from Swagger UI, you might want to enable CORS
support with the ``X_DOMAINS`` and ``X_HEADERS`` configuration in your Eve
``settings.py``:

.. code-block:: python

    X_DOMAINS = ['http://localhost:8000',  # The domain where Swagger UI is running
                 'http://editor.swagger.io',
                 'http://petstore.swagger.io']
    X_HEADERS = ['Content-Type', 'If-Match']  # Needed for the "Try it out" buttons

For more information check the CORS documentation of `Swagger UI`_ and `Swagger
Editor`_.

Installation
------------
.. code-block::

    $ pip install eve-swagger


Description fields on the swagger docs
--------------------------------------

If you would like to include description fields to your swagger docs you can
include a description field in your schema validations in your ``settings.py``.
This can be done per field as well as on the resource-level.

As an example:

.. code-block:: python

    ...
    'description': 'Description of the user resource',
    'schema': {
        'userName': {
            'description': 'The username of the logged in user.',
            'type': 'string',
            'minlength': 1,
            'maxlength': 256,
            'required': True
        },
    }
    ...

**NOTE**: If you do use that feature make sure that the ``TRANSPARENT_SCHEMA_RULES``
in your ``settings.py`` is also turned ON, otherwise you will get complains from the
Cerberus library about "unknown field 'description' for field [yourFieldName]", or use
a custom schema validator, as below:

.. code-block:: python

    from eve.io.mongo import Validator

    class MyValidator(Validator):
        def _validate_description(self, description, field, value):
            """ {'type': 'string'} """
            # Accept description attribute, used for swagger doc generation
            pass

    app = Eve(validator=MyValidator)


Disabling the documentation of a resource
-----------------------------------------

You can disable the documentation of a specific resource by adding a ``disable_documentation`` field
to the resource definition in ``settings.py``. This means that the resource will not show up in
the ``paths`` or ``definitions`` sections of the swagger docs.

.. code-block:: python

    ...
    'person': {
        'item_title': 'person',
        'disable_documentation': True,
        'schema': {...}
    }
    ...

Enabling the documentation of Eve event hooks
---------------------------------------------

By setting ``app.config['ENABLE_HOOK_DESCRIPTION']`` to ``True`` you can enable the description of all Eve event hooks.
This is done by showing the docstrings of the callback functions in the swagger docs under the appropriate ``paths``.

.. code-block:: python

    def foo(request, lookup):
        """ Do something before GETting all the people """
        pass
    def bar(response):
        """ Do something when you've fetched the database entries """
        pass
    ...
    app.config['ENABLE_HOOK_DESCRIPTION'] = True
    ...
    app.on_pre_GET_people += foo
    app.on_fetched_resource_people += bar

The swagger docs will now look like this:

.. code-block:: python

    "paths": {
        "/people": {
            "get": {
                ...,
                "description": "**Hooks**:\n* `on_pre_GET_people`:\n\n  * `foo`:\n\n    Do something before GETting all the people\n\n\n* `on_fetched_resource_people`:\n\n  * `bar`:\n\n    Do something when you've fetched the database entries\n\n"
            }
        }
    }

Which will be rendered by Swagger like this:

.. image:: resources/hook_description.png

Example fields on the docs
--------------------------

Like a description, an example can be added to a field.

.. code-block:: python

    ...
    'schema': {
        'lastName': {
            'example': 'Doe',
            'type': 'string',
            'minlength': 1,
        },
    }
    ...

The example is shown in the swagger ui in the model and the responses.

.. image:: resources/example_field.png

**NOTE**: As with the description, the field ``TRANSPARENT_SCHEMA_RULES``
must be enabled in your ``settings.py``, otherwise the Cerberus library
will display an error about "unknown field 'example' for field[yourFieldName]".

If you do not want to use this rule for the entire schema, you can also use
your own validator.

.. code-block:: python

    from eve.io.mongo import Validator

    class MyValidator(Validator):
        def _validate_example(self, example, field, value):
            if example and not isinstance(value, str):
                self._error(field, "Value must be a string")

    ...

    app = Eve(validator=MyValidator)

Example resources on the docs
-----------------------------

Like a description, an example can be added to a resource.

.. code-block:: python

    ...
    'sub_resource': {
        'description': 'A sub resource to test regex urls.',
        'url': 'people/<regex("[a-f0-9]{24}"):personid>/related',
        'example': {'subject': 'A sub_resource object example'},

        'schema': {
            'personid': {
                'type': 'objectid',
                'data_relation': {
                    'resource': 'people',
                    'field': '_id', },
            },
            'subject': {'type': 'string'},
        }
    },
    ...

The resource example overrides the example generated from the schema definition, and can be used to hide fields that are defined on the server side.
The example is shown in the swagger ui in the parameters only.


Copyright
---------
Eve-Swagger is an open source project by `Nicola Iarocci`_.
See the original LICENSE_ for more information.

.. |latest-version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/eve-swagger.svg
   :alt: Latest version on PyPI
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/eve-swagger
.. |build-status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/pyeve/eve-swagger.svg?branch=master
   :alt: Build status
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/pyeve/eve-swagger
.. |python-support| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/eve-swagger.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/eve-swagger
   :alt: Python versions
.. |license| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/eve-swagger.svg
   :alt: Software license
   :target: https://github.com/pyeve/eve-swagger/blob/master/LICENSE
.. |black-formatting| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg
   :alt: Black code formatting
   :target: https://github.com/ambv/black

.. _Swagger: http://swagger.io/
.. _Eve: http://python-eve.org/
.. _`popular request`: https://github.com/pyeve/eve/issues/574
.. _LICENSE: https://github.com/pyeve/eve-swagger/blob/master/LICENSE
.. _`Nicola Iarocci`: http://nicolaiarocci.com
.. _`Swagger UI`: https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-ui#enabling-cors
.. _`Swagger Editor`: https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-editor/blob/master/docs/cors.md
